README.md, before:

# solid-tiddlywiki-syncadaptor

Another attempt to make tiddlywiki a frontend for SoLiD Server.

## Files stored on the POD

Only user modified tiddlers will be synced to the SoLiD POD, likes `$:/StoryList` and other user created tiddlers.

### Privacy

SoLiD have `/public` and `/private`, this sync adapter will create two index, each contains an array of `SkinnyTiddlers` (`SkinnyTiddlers` is used by [Syncadaptor](https://tiddlywiki.com/dev/#Syncadaptor), describing what tiddlers you have).

Index files are stored in the `/public/tiddlywiki/main/index.ttl` for example, you must input at least one location into the field inside `$:/ControlPanel/Saving`'s `SoLiD SyncAdaptor` tab's IndexFiles field, before you can login in the `$:/ControlPanel/Saving`.

you can add more than one index files in the `$:/ControlPanel/Saving`, each in a new line, for example, add a `/private/tiddlywiki/main/index.ttl` and a `/private/tiddlywiki/main/shareWithGirlFriend.ttl`, so it will be:

```config
/public/tiddlywiki/main/index.ttl
/private/tiddlywiki/main/index.ttl
/private/tiddlywiki/main/shareWithGirlFriend.ttl
```

Note that this config field is located in `$:/plugins/linonetwo/solid-tiddlywiki-syncadaptor/IndexFiles` and will also be sync to your POD, it's better to set this file public for convenience.

#### Can not access private resources

See [github.com/solid/node-solid-server#upgrading-from-version-4](https://github.com/solid/node-solid-server#upgrading-from-version-4)

> starting from version 5, third-party apps are untrusted by default. To trust a third-party app, before you can log in to it, you first need to go to your profile at example.com/profile/card#me (important to include the ‘#me’ there), and then hover over the ‘card’ header to reveal the context menu. From there, select the ‘A’ symbol to go to your trusted applications pane, where you can whitelist third-party apps before using them. See also solid/node-solid-server/issues/1142 about streamlining this UX flow.

#### Share with certain friends

Index file on `/private` folder is invisible to anyone not in your Web Access Control List File, normally this ACL file is located in `/private/tiddlywiki/main/index.ttl.acl` (?). You can change it using other SoLiD Apps.

#### Set a tiddler private

You can set a tiddler belongs to an index file use `solid-index-file` tiddler field, for example, `solid-index-file: /private/tiddlywiki/main/index.ttl`. If this tiddler field is unset, this sync adaptor will assign the first one in the `$:/ControlPanel/Saving`'s IndexFiles field to it.

## Todo

Full text search on SoLiD POD is currently impossible, and is [hard on TW](https://github.com/rsc/tiddly/issues/3).

## Acknowledgements

I've learnt the code of [bourgeoa's tiddlywiki-node-solid-server](https://github.com/bourgeoa/tiddlywiki-node-solid-server)

Commit message:

refactor: use LDP Container to store tiddler

README.md, after:

# solid-tiddlywiki-syncadaptor

Another attempt to make tiddlywiki a frontend for SoLiD Server.

## Files stored on the POD

Only user modified tiddlers will be synced to the SoLiD POD, likes `$:/StoryList` and other user created tiddlers.

### Privacy

#### Share with certain friends

SoLiD have `/public` and `/inbox` (or `/private`), file on `/inbox` folder (which is a private container) is invisible to anyone not in your Web Access Control List, normally this ACL file is located in `/private/tiddlywiki/.acl` (?), if you choose to place some your tiddlers inside `/private/tiddlywiki`. You can change this ACL file using SoLiD's data browser web page, or using other SoLiD Apps, to share some tiddler with limited friends.

#### Set a tiddler private

You can set a tiddler belongs to a container use `solid-sync` tiddler field, for example, `solid-sync: /private/tiddlywiki/main`. If this tiddler field is unset, this sync adaptor will assign one for it, by default the first one in the `$:/ControlPanel/Saving`'s TWContainers field.

`solid-sync` field accepts string or **array**, so you can assign a tiddler to more than one container, for example one container for draft, one container for publish.

#### Data structure

This sync adapter will create some folders (containers) to store your tiddlers, each container is actually a web page with RDF inside, representing an array of `SkinnyTiddlers` (`SkinnyTiddlers` is used by [Syncadaptor](https://tiddlywiki.com/dev/#Syncadaptor), describing what tiddlers you have in the backend).

#### Please set a location to store tiddler before you login

Containers can located at `/public/tiddlywiki/main` for example, you must set at least one location in `$:/ControlPanel/Saving`'s `SoLiD SyncAdaptor` tab's TWContainers field, before you can login in the `$:/ControlPanel/Saving`.

you can add more than one index files in the `$:/ControlPanel/Saving`, each in a new line, for example, add a `/private/tiddlywiki/main` and a `/private/tiddlywiki/shareWithGirlFriend`, so it will be:

```config
/public/tiddlywiki/main
/private/tiddlywiki/main
/private/tiddlywiki/shareWithGirlFriend
```

Note that this config field is located in `$:/plugins/linonetwo/solid-tiddlywiki-syncadaptor/TWContainers` and will also be sync to your POD, it's better to set this file public for convenience.

#### If you can not access private resources

See [github.com/solid/node-solid-server#upgrading-from-version-4](https://github.com/solid/node-solid-server#upgrading-from-version-4)

> starting from version 5, third-party apps are untrusted by default. To trust a third-party app, before you can log in to it, you first need to go to your profile at example.com/profile/card#me (important to include the ‘#me’ there), and then hover over the ‘card’ header to reveal the context menu. From there, select the ‘A’ symbol to go to your trusted applications pane, where you can whitelist third-party apps before using them. See also solid/node-solid-server/issues/1142 about streamlining this UX flow.

## Todo

Full text search on SoLiD POD is currently impossible, and is [hard on TW](https://github.com/rsc/tiddly/issues/3).

## Acknowledgements

I've learnt the code of [bourgeoa's tiddlywiki-node-solid-server](https://github.com/bourgeoa/tiddlywiki-node-solid-server)
